in Buddhism the main goal is the end of
suffering there's one form of suffering
in particular that Blake's most people
at some point in their lives which is
called anxiety in this video I will
explore what we can learn from Buddhism
in regards to fighting this destructive
emotion
[Music]
anxiety and panic disorders are very
common these days which are basically
manifestations of anxiety getting out of
control for most people the first
reaction towards anxiety is trying to
fight it but according to Buddhism an
important step for fighting anxiety is
not fighting it the teachings of the
Buddha are geared towards acceptance
fighting anxiety will lead to even more
anxiety because you are resisting
something that already is which is kind
of insane when you think of it so what
can Buddhism offer to ease anxiety in
order to answer this question let's find
out what anxiety actually is we live in
a fear-based
society we're never safe enough so we
comply with laws that restrict our
freedom promising that we'll be safer
we're never beautiful enough so we spend
a fortune on liposuction Botox and
anabolic steroids we're never rich
enough so we neglect our mental and
physical health to chase the money a
phenomenon called status anxiety which
is extensively talked about by British
philosopher Alain de Botton makes us
worry all the time about our jobs our
bank accounts and keeping up with the
Joneses also we need to keep track of
our Instagram followers our likes on
Facebook and yes our channel stats in
the YouTube creator studio with all
these things to worry about we often
experience anxiety common coping
mechanisms for this anxiety are alcohol
drugs porn food and different forms of
entertainment we want to escape the
suffering caused by anxiety and so we
numb our minds this phenomenon already
implies that it's not the outside world
but it's the mind that produces anxiety
anxiety and panic both start in the mind
that engages in excess of thinking to
the point that the physical symptoms of
anxiety occur the Buddhists refer to the
excessive thinking patterns
as the monkey might I've made a video
about the dangers of excessive thinking
which you will find below a great
mistake we make as human beings is that
we are easily fooled by the mind we
believe the mind but the mind is a great
fabricator of fantasies about the future
lies about the present and baloney about
the past many times our mind isn't our
friend at all therefore we shouldn't
believe everything our mind presents to
us especially when it's one big deluge
of negativity but when we do the monkey
minds generates anxiety what often
happens when we experience the
uncomfortable feeling of anxiety is that
we start to worry about anxiety by
worrying about anxiety we fall into a
vicious cycle
Buddhism offers a wisdom and practice to
ease anxiety wisdom means that we
understand what anxiety is where it
comes from and how to treat it a simple
but effective lesson by the Buddhists is
that worrying is pointless the eighth
century Buddhist monk named shanti devi
says about this and i quote if the
problem can be solved why worry if the
problem cannot be solved worrying will
do you no good and quote if you have a
problem that you can solve you either
focus on a problem entirely in the
present moment or you don't if you
cannot solve it then drop it many things
we worry about are beyond our control
and it's completely useless to spend our
time and energy thinking about them
unfortunately our monkey mind loves
worrying probably because it loves
solving puzzles but most of the puzzles
that our minds come up with don't have
to be solved because they are based on
irrational fears fantasies and just
plain nonsense when it comes to
excessive thinking we should focus on
dissolvent
rather than resolvement this is where
practice comes in the Buddhist method to
achieve this is called meditation
meditation is a way to focus on the
present moment and watch your thoughts
passing by like clouds in the sky in
stead of engaging with them this
practice calms the monkey might without
fighting
but with acceptance there are many
different forms of meditation I've made
a video about the meditative effects of
cleaning which you will find below let
me know if you're interested in making
more videos about different forms of
meditation or about what Buddhism can do
to live a happier life and I'll see what
I can do thank you for watching
[Music]